What is Risk?
Risk is a potential problem that is not yet occured. The risk already occured is called issue and is treated separately in software project planning.


Risk could be negative (Threat) or positive (opportunity)

Risk management is a critical activity in the project management planning and tracking. It include Risk Identification, Priortization and Treatment of risk faced by the business.


Risk management is performed at various level e.g. Project level, program level, Industry level, country level or internaltional level.

Risk arises from variety of perspective
Project failure
Safety
Security
Legal 
liability and so on

Lets look at the Risk Management process
1) Risk Identification - Risk is identified within project scope. using number of resource, risk list and past history.

Risk Appetitie - How much risk you can absortb
Risk Tolerance - Limit in which risk is acceptable

Risk Appetitle/Tolerance helps to choose the action item from the risk register


2) Risk Priortization - Priortize the risk that is properly identified.
There are 2 thing
	Rate Risk Impact
	Rate Risk Probability

Finally calculate the risk index for the project

	Risk Index = Sum of (risk impact * Risk probability)

3) Risk Treatment
*Risk Avoidance - postone the risky part to next release ()
*Risk Transfer - To transfer risk to specialized company  (e.g. Outsourcing, Insurance)
*Risk Mitigation - To solve the risk or minimize by taking action. To introduce an experience resource if the current team is inexperienced.
*Risk Acceptance -Any risk that is not treated that is accepted. Due to reason due to cost or unable to mitigate. Not having another server if the server crashes.



For Positive risk (Opportunities) - risk response planning strategy could be
---------------------------------
Expolit
Share
Enhance
Accept





Risk assessment is a continuous process that is done at differnet phases.


Risk Responses : The steps taken to tackle risk
  Due to response, there may create another risks. This is secondary risks


Tools to analyze risks
*SWOT Analysis - Stength, Weakness, Opporunity and Threats
*Root Cause Analysis
*Brainstorming
*Risk Breakdown structure
*Influence Diagram -> Network Diagram (How events are related)




https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bbi2diraL8M
Edureka


Qualitative Risk Analysis
Quanititive Risk Analysis

[Modelling and simulation technique]
Monte-Carlo Simulation to finding the probablity index for risk

Decision tree is used to analyze the risks




---------------------------------------


Risk Management

Risk Metrix
	High  >10
	Medium  >5 and <=10
	Low <=5




deep study into PMP 
